% Prepare for the Zombie Apocalypse: WebVisions NYC
% Jason Grigsby and Lyza Danger Gardner

# Apocalypse 101: Zombie Preparedness

## Jason Grigsby and Lyza Danger Gardner

### January 18, 2012, Web Visions NYC

#### Outline and overview: What you'll learn as a new recruit

# Assess the Threat

> The zombie gadget army is marching over yon hill.

## Overview

A high-level overview of the coming zombie apocalypse, and why you'd better start arming yourself.

> Disruption will only accelerate. The quantity and diversity of connected devices—
> many of which we haven't imagined yet—will explode, as will the quantity and
> diversity of the people around the world who use them. -- [FutureFriend.ly][futurefriendly]

# A cleansing boot camp to prepare your body and soul

> You got fat, Gomer Pyle.

## Overview

Establish and maintain good web hygiene habits. We've become lazy, our sites bloated and stupid. Those things you could get away with back at the farm will get you killed straightaway in zombie gadget combat. Time to shape up and ship out.

> Initial contacts with zombies are extremely traumatic, causing shock, panic, disbelief and possibly denial, 
> hampering survivors' ability to deal with hostile encounters.
> -- [Wikipedia][wiki-apocalypse]

## Topics

* Fixing broken sites (validation, etc.)
* Cutting the fat (optimizing images, reducing div-itis)
* Removing the stupid (extraneous crap on page; non-semantic markup)
* Server-side optimization quickies
* Content-/mobile-first thinking

# Release the hounds

> You already have some blunt weapons. They just need to be sharpened and oiled.

## Overview

> "While aggressive quarantine may contain the epidemic, or a cure may lead to coexistence
> of humans and zombies, the most effective way to contain the rise of the undead is to
> hit hard and hit often." 
> -- Philip Munz, Ioan Hudea, Joe Imad, and Robert J. Smith? [sic], *When Zombies Attack!* (2009)

## Topics

* Releasing non-existent control (quarantine doesn't work).
* Responsive web design.
* Mobile-first responsive web design.
* Reporting to your superiors (bearing the message of flexible layouts).

# A honed killing machine

> Bad-ass, Special-ops kind of stuff to really show 'em who's the boss.

## Overview

Brandishing hardcore device APIs, sniffing for superpowers and caching the hell out of stuff will leave 'em quaking in their boots. If zombies wear boots. Which they might not.

## Topics

* Cache manifests.
* Device APIs.
* Feature detection.


# Bloodier uprisings

> These zombies aren't dying cleanly.

> Our existing standards, workflows, and infrastructure won't hold up. Today's onslaught
> of devices is already pushing them to the breaking point. They can't withstand what's ahead. -- [FutureFriend.ly][futurefriendly]

## Overview

Running into the limits of what we can do easily, in the client, or reliably at all. A get-real look at the struggles we face.

## Topics

* The problem with media queries.
* The problem with images.
* The problem with content ordering.
* Polyfills.

# A band of brothers

> Might not need to re-invent the same zombie-blasting cannon over and over again.

## Overview

Getting a leg up by using tools and frameworks out there.

## Topics

* Frameworks: e.g. jQuery Mobile.


# Desperate times call for desperate measures

> Don't be afraid to make it up as you go along.

> Proprietary solutions will dominate at first. Innovation necessarily precedes
> standardization. Technologists will scramble to these solutions before realizing
> (yet again) that a standardized platform is needed to maintain sanity. -- [FutureFriend.ly][futurefriendly]

## Overview

Clever hacks for maximum kill power: other ways to skin a zombie.

## Topics

* Unusual techniques.
* Hybrid web-native apps.


# Know thy enemy

> It walks like a duck, it talks like a duck. It's actually a zombie. Shoot it anyway.

## Overview

Server-side device detection, grouping and content adaptation. Learn to spot those wayward bad guys and know in advance what they're capable of.

## Topics

* Device detection.
* Device databases.
* Device features.
* Device classes.
* Content adaptation.


# When the authorities fail to react with due speed

> The standards process will be painfully slow. We will struggle with
> (and eventually agree upon) appropriate standards. During this period,
> the web will fall even further behind proprietary solutions. -- [FutureFriend.ly][futurefriendly]

## Overview

The standards we need aren't there yet. Looking to the future.

> The response of authorities to the threat is slower than its rate of growth, giving the
> zombie plague time to expand beyond containment. This results in the collapse of the given
> society. Zombies take full control while small groups of the living must fight
> for their survival. -- [Wikipedia][wiki-apocalypse]

[wiki-apocalypse]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zombie_apocalypse "Wikipedia article on Zombie Apocalypse"
[futurefriendly]: http://futurefriend.ly "Future Friendly"
